tail
The most common use of tail is to monitor
log file entries as they are being written
For example, we may want to
monitor the Apache logs,
to see if a web server is being
contacted by a given client
we are attempting to attack
with a client-side exploit.
The -f option is very useful.
It continuously updates the output
as the target file grows.
Since our local Apache web server
is already running,
we’ll visit the default
page using Firefox.
If we go back to our terminal, we should
see the requests made in the log file.
Another convenient switch is -nX
which outputs the last “X” number of lines,
instead of the default value of 10.
Tail has a number of other useful
options outlined in its man page.